# Extra-curricular Points Tracking Website
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/dz3i05pGUKk
#### Description: CS50 project - A website that tracks extra-curricular points for high school students
This is a Flask-based website that is a user-friendly interface for a points tracking database. It uses a sqlite3 database called extracurr.db to track which activities high school students participate in and the extra-curricular points assigned to it. This dynamic website was created out of a need for a way for each advisor teachers to add student participants. Formerly, the job of tracking extra-curricular points at our school fell to one person using a spreadsheet. For a school of 1500 students, it is a burdensome task for this responsibility to fall to one person.

The database, extracurr.db, has three tables: students, activities, and activity points. The students table stores the student id number generated by the database, student names, and grades. The activities table stores "transactions" of each activity and associated points that is connected to the student id. The table for activity points stores each possible activity and how many points they are worth. Extracurr.db was initialized from a sample spreadsheet called extracurr.xlsx that was converted to extracurr.csv. The Python file import.py was used to import the data from the CSV file to the database.

The file app.py is the Flask application file that renders the webpages and collects and inputs the data from the user. These are the following functions and their purpose:
index - loads the homepage
student - allows the user to search the database by student name and grade. The output is a list of the activities a student has been involved in and their total accumulated extra-curricular points.
grade - allows the user to search for the total points for each student in the chosen grade. The output is the student name and the total points.
activity - allows the user to search for every student who has participated in a chosen activity
points - allows the user to search by grade students who have points over a certain threshold specified by the user. The output is the student names and their total points.
add_activity - allows the user to add an activity that is not in the database and its associated points
add - allows a user to add a student's participation to a activity. If the student isn't found in the database, it directs the user to add the student and grade before proceeding.
add_student - allows the user to add a student to the database by entering the student name and grade.
team - allows the user to input an entire roster of students to the activities database at one time. The function takes the user input and writes it into a TXT file called team.txt then converts it into CSV file called team.csv. From the CSV file, the function inserts the students into the activities table. If the student does not exist in the database, the user is asked if they want to add the student to the database.
add_student_team - the user is redirected from team.html if any students are not found in the database. The function generates a list of students missing from the database and the user click which one they want to add. The function then adds the students to the students database and the activities database for the specified activity.

In the static folder, there are two sub-folders: Images which stores the website image files, and js which contains the Javascript files. The file layout.js controls the dropdown menus in the navigation bar on top of the webpages. Pdf.js generated PDF files from the user's search results. The static folder also contains styles.css which is the stylesheet for the website's formatting.

In the templates folder are the following webpages that are rendered by Flask:
index.html - the homepage with a school logo and navigation bar that reads "Add" and "Search".
activity_search.html - contains a form with a dropdown menu of available activities and allows the user to search for all the students who have participated in this activity. After clicking submit, the user is redirected to activity_searched.html which generates a table of names, grades, and total points for the chosen activity. There is a button with the option to generate a PDF with the results.
activity.html - contains a form for the user to add a new activity and associated points value. After submission, the page is redirected to added_activity.html that has the updated list of all possible activities.
add.html is a form to add a single student to an activity. If the student doesn't exist in the database, the user is redirected to add_student.html where the user confirms that they want to add the student to the database of students and to the specified activity. After the student is successfully added, the user is redirected to added.html that contains a confirmation message that the insertion was a success.
grade_search.html - contains a form with a dropdown menu of possible grades. After submitted, the user is redirected to grade_searched.html with a list of all of the students from the specified grade. There is a button with the option to generate a PDF with the results.
layout.html - the layout template that contains the HTML for the navigation bar and the calls for the Javascripts.
points_search.html - contains a form that allows the user to search for the students in a chosen grade over a user specified threshold. The user is redirected to points_searched.html with a list of the students and how many points they have. There is a button with the option to generate a PDF with the results.
student_search.html - contains a form to search for an individuals points and activities by inputting the student name and grade. The user is redirected to student_searched.html that outputs a table of the student name, points, and activities. If there is more than one student in that grade with the same name, it prints all students. There is a button with the option to generate a PDF with the results.
team.html - contains a textbox that allows users to add an entire roster by copying and pasting from their attendance sheet. If any students are not in the database of students, the user is redirected to add_student_team.html to choose which students they want to add by using a checkbox form. After any students are added, the user is redirected to added_team.html which outputs a confirmation message that the students were successfully added to the students and activities tables.


